Mailmodo source doc (#888)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/sources/event-streams/cloud-apps/mailmodo.mdx

---
title: "Mailmodo"
description: Step-by-step guide on ingesting your event data from Mailmodo into RudderStack.
aliases: ["Mailmodo source"]
---

> [Mailmodo](https://www.mailmodo.com/) is an interactive email marketing tool that provides several features such as sending transactional campaigns, email automation and drip emails with customer journeys, WYSIWYG email editor, and many other tool integrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Mailmodo](https://www.mailmodo.com/) is an interactive email marketing tool. It provides several features such as transactional campaigns, email automation and drip emails with customer journeys, WYSIWYG email editor, and many other tool integrations.
```

Reviewer: For better readability, as suggested by Grammarly.

This guide will help you set up Mailmodo as a source in RudderStack.

## Getting started

Follow these steps to set up your Mailmodo source in the RudderStack dashboard:

> 1. Go to your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/) and click on **Add Source**. From the list of **Event Streams** sources, select **Mailmodo**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/) and click **Add Source**. From the list of **Event Streams** sources, select **Mailmodo**.
```

2. Assign a name to your source and click **Continue**.
3. Your Mailmodo source is now configured. Note the **Webhook URL** in the **Settings** tab, as shown:

<img src="../../../assets/event-stream-sources/Mailmodo-2.png" alt="Mailmodo source webhook URL" />

> 4. Log into your <a href="https://manage.mailmodo.com/auth/logi">Mailmodo account</a> and enter the **Webhook URL** based on the required format. Mailmodo can send data to a webhook in any of the following formats:    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Log into your <a href="https://manage.mailmodo.com/auth/logi">Mailmodo account</a> and enter the **Webhook URL** in the required format. Mailmodo can send data to a webhook in any of the following formats:    
```

Reviewer: "Mailmodo can send data to a webhook in any of the following formats: 

- Send data via webhook by setting it up as an action in the user journey..."

Reading it together feels a bit odd. can we say:

 "Mailmodo can send data to a webhook in any of the following ways: 

- By setting it up as an action in the user journey..
- By adding Mailmodo's webhook integration..."

Thoughts?

- Send data via webhook by setting it up as an action in the user journey. Follow the detailed steps from [Mailmodo documentation](https://support.mailmodo.com/support/solutions/articles/84000365396-send-webhook-as-an-action-in-the-journey):

<img src="../../../assets/event-stream-sources/webhook_url_1.png" alt="Mailmodo source webhook URL" />

- Add Mailmodo's webhook integration from the template builder and use it to export data. Follow the detailed steps from [Mailmodo documentation](https://support.mailmodo.com/support/solutions/articles/84000351525-exporting-mailmodo-template-submissions-to-your-software-stack-using-webhook):

<img src="../../../assets/event-stream-sources/webhook_url_2.png" alt="Mailmodo source webhook URL" />

## Event transformation

RudderStack ingests the Mailmodo events after converting them into the RudderStack event format. It also maps the following properties from the Mailmodo event payload to the RudderStack properties:

| Mailmodo property  | RudderStack property| Notes |
| :------------------ | :------------- |:------------- |

> | `mailmodoUserId`  | `context.externalId[0].type`    | Only when [webhook is set up as an action in the user journey](https://support.mailmodo.com/support/solutions/articles/84000365396-send-webhook-as-an-action-in-the-journey). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `mailmodoUserId`  | `context.externalId[0].type`    | Only when [the webhook is set up as an action in the user journey](https://support.mailmodo.com/support/solutions/articles/84000365396-send-webhook-as-an-action-in-the-journey). |
```

> | `triggerData.userId`        | `context.externalId[0].value`        | Only when [webhook is set up as an action in the user journey](https://support.mailmodo.com/support/solutions/articles/84000365396-send-webhook-as-an-action-in-the-journey). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `triggerData.userId`        | `context.externalId[0].value`        | Only when [the webhook is set up as an action in the user journey](https://support.mailmodo.com/support/solutions/articles/84000365396-send-webhook-as-an-action-in-the-journey). |
```

    "journeyId": "3f135bf7-****-4e31-b265-f61cfe1bd423"
  }
}
```

RudderStack transforms the above payload into the following payload:

```json
{
  "anonymousId": "26c9ad4b531287858155ffa834be13dddc2c45df6e29af7230408953d732dd92",
  "context": {
    "externalId": [{
      "id": "d3775892-****-4f2f-b9d5-e49810eb2cae",
      "type": "mailmodoUserId"
    }],
    "traits": {
      "email": "alex@example.com"
    },
    "integration": {
      "name": "Mailmodo",
      "version": "1.0.0"
    },
    "library": {
      "name": "unknown",
      "version": "unknown"
    }
  },
  "event": "New Custom Event Trigger - Product Viewed",
  "integrations": {
    "Mailmodo": false
  },
  "properties": {
    "triggerData.eventProperty.Category": "Mobiles",
    "triggerData.eventProperty.Currency": "USD",
    "triggerData.eventProperty.Is Purchased": "false",
    "triggerData.eventProperty.Name": "APPLE iPhone 13 (Blue, 128 GB)",
    "triggerData.eventProperty.Price": "829",
    "triggerData.journeyId": "3f135bf7-****-4e31-b265-f61cfe1bd423",
    "triggerData.triggerSource": "New Custom Event Trigger - Product Viewed"
  },
  "type": "track"
}
```

> - If you choose to export Mailmodo template submissions to your software stack using Webhook, a sample payload sent by Mailmodo is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you choose to export the Mailmodo template submissions to your software stack using a webhook, a sample payload sent by Mailmodo is shown below:
```
